Welcome back.
Let's talk about the very first role when it comes to big-O that is worst case when calculating big.
Oh we always think about the worst case.
What do I mean by that well if we go back to Finding Nemo for example
and find Nemo function you may have been screaming at me while I was going through the function saying
that Andre This is not efficient.
What are you doing.
Because if you look at this function we're looping through the entire array to find Nemo.
Remember how we had the every one array with about 10 different characters from Finding Nemo.
Well Nemo was only the one two three fourth member on this array.
And when we run this function we found Nemo.
But the funny thing is this function ran 10 times not four times.
If I do a console log here and I say running and let's click this we see that this function ran one
two three four five six seven eight nine ten.
I mean we already found Nemo all these runs are pretty wasteful.
So we can make this function a little bit more efficient in javascript.
We can just have something called break.
And again different languages have different ways of exiting out of a loop.
If a condition is met in our case if we find Nimo just break out of this loop if I do this and click
run will get that.
Once we found Nimo we're done we're not going to loop through the rest of the items.
Congratulations.
We just made our code a little bit more efficient.
That's a good thing right.
Well when it comes to big O.
Although this is important.
And when you write good code this is something that we want to do in the big scheme of things.
Big-O only cares about the worst case what is the worst case here.
Well the worst case is that Nimo is set of being the fourth item is at the very end.
So even if we have this break statement we're still going to run as 10 times because Neema at the end.
Best case is if Nemos at the very beginning and we only have to loop through it once.
But worst case we're still going to have to go through 10 loops still big o of.
And so this is our very first rule the very first rule is we always care about what is the worst case
scenario because when we talk about scalability we can't just assume things are going well even though
the find Nimo function might be of one if Nimo is the very first item in the array it doesn't matter
in the grand scheme of things because we can't be certain of what the input is going to be.
We're going to assume that all of the go is of linear time again if we're finding a yellow box and the
yellow box is at the very end.
We have to iterate through all the boxes.
If the yellow box at the very beginning you see that we don't have to iterate through these boxes but
big-O doesn't really care.
Even though this function yes is indeed more efficient at the end of the day when we talk about big-O
we're talking about worst case.
All right I hope you got that point through.
I feel like I've beaten to a pulp so you should be comfortable with it by now.
Let's talk about the next role on the next video.